Run `pip install -r requirements.txt`

Run `python -m Shapes.data_generation` to generate shape data.

The shape generation method has 5 available shapes (square, triangle, circle, ellipse, and rectangle), 5 colors (blue, green, yellow, purple, and red), 5 sizes, and 5 angles of orientation (optional). You can choose the number of categories (shapes) you use. It will then assign each shape one of the colors, sizes, and angles (optional) and samples canonical examples from a normal distribution centered at the value assigned it.

Non canonical samples are generated by independently choosing different color, size, or angle for a given shape, and then sampling a shape from that distribution, or by choosing all of the stats of some other shape and then sampling from that distribution. You can change the defaul image size in Shapes/drawing.py

In order to carry out experiments on the shapes dataset, navigate to Experiments/shape_tests.py. These experiments proceed as follows: There are 4000 images in the training set. Class 0 consists of red squares and blue squares, whereas Class 1 consists of red triangles and blue triangles. There are only N_DISAMBIG red triangles and N_DISAMBIG blue squares. These are considered to be 'disambiguating images', as they disambiguate the rule governing defining classes: without them, the rule could be based on color or shape. In the main method of this file, you will be able to set the number of disambiguating images, change the hyperparameters of the importance sampling procedure, and set whether you want the network to use importance sampling or not.

The importance sampling procedure used here is based on the paper ONLINE BATCH SELECTION FOR FASTER TRAINING OF
NEURAL NETWORKS by (Loshchilov & Hutter, 2016). We edit their algorithm slightly in order to make the importance sampling procedure more aggressive.